---
layout: post
title: New Year's Resolution for 2019
modified: 12/31/2018, 23:57:00
tags: [life]
category: life
comments: true
excerpt: "Stay grateful; Be passionate"
---

**Disclaimer: this post is cheesy and cliche. Do not read it if you are
older than five.**

2018 flied past in just the blink of an eye. Looking back, I feel immensely
grateful to my family, friends, and mentors for their support. Applying to
graduate schools, preparing for academic conference, surviving my first quarter
at Stanford. None of these were easy. I was able to hang in there only because
of the help I received from many, many kind people. Although the journey has
been less than smooth, I developed a stronger gratitude and appreciation for
each and every day I am given.

2018 has been great, and it is time to look ahead and hope 2019 will be even
better. *My biggest wish for myself in 2019 is to stay grateful for each day I
am given, and be passionate about the things that I do.*

Aside from the big, fuzzy guideline, there are three things I want to get
better at in 2019. Consider these my new year's resolution for 2019.

1. **Meditation**: I have been meditating daily for more than a month now. In
   this short amount of time, meditation has already helped me to feel more
   relaxed and grateful. I hope I can meditation more and be better at it. To
   this end, my goal for this year is to **15,000 minutes over the next 365 days.
   (~41 min every day)**

2. **Exercise**: I am pretty darn weak, and I get injured very easily. So I
   will be conservative and start small. My goal for this year is to be able to
   do **50 consecutive push-ups and 50 consecutive imbalanced no-weight
   squats**
   (Ugh, I really don't know how to describe this movement concisely, so let's
   leave it like this).

3. **RL**: I got really interested in reinforcement learning in summer of 2018,
   but have not yet got a chance to study it well. I hope that I can learn more
   about it in 2019. I will be taking CS234 and MS\&E338 this year. Goals
   outside classes are to **finish Sutton's RL book, watch the DeepRL course
   from Berkeley, and the RL bootcamp.**

*Note to myself: The important thing is to stay grateful, be humble, and
treasure family and friends. Remember that family and friends are always
more important than these goals. Also, know that you will get frustrated
about your progress at some point. You being you, this is bound to happen.  But
remember, these are not meant to be easy. Seek help, talk to people. You will
always find that you are in good hands.*

You can track my progress [here](/progress)
