---
layout: post
title: "[Life] Reflection 2019.01 - 2019.03"
tags: [life]
author: FJ
category: life
excerpt: "How is it April already..."
---

When I started this blog, the key motivation was to use it to document the
colorful details in life, and also, in the process, push myself to periodically
look back and reflect. Now, a quarter of 2019 has passed, and I have not
written one single post. Ugh, it is bad, isn't it?  But, well, what's done is
done. Although many of the colorful details have been lost, I hereby look back
and note some highs and lows in the past three months.

**Trip back home**: This Feburary, I got to stay at home for the Chinese New
Year for five days. Despite the short time, it was perhaps the happiest I have
been in the past couple years. It had been five years since I was home for
Spring Festival the time before. I almost forgot how much I enjoyed this time
of the year when I was a kid and teenager, but as soon as I got off the plane
and saw the bright, almost aggressively red decorations in the airport, I felt
overwhelmed by a sudden rush of nostalgia. It was all too familiar. Meeting
family friends, listening to and speaking way too much Shanghainese, watching
the TV broadcast of Spring Festival customs of different regions... This year,
I even went to the Yu Garden with my family to get an extra dose of the
festivity, which I normally would not do. Although I missed a week of class
because of the trip, which made the rest of the quarter quite hectic, I felt it
was probably still one of the best decisions I made in the past couple years.
The trip was for sure the single, unquestionable best time I had during the
first three months of 2019.

**Turtlebot**: Over the past quarter, I took AA274 (Principles of Robotic
Autonomy). The class is very interesting and packed with information. For me,
the highlight was, without a doubt, the final project. The final project
involved programming a Turtlebot to navigate a fictional city, document the
locations of food items, and later deliver the food items to a given location.
This was my first time working with ROS and doing non-trivial programming on
real robots. It was a roller coaster ride.  There were times of
disappointments, for example, when we wasted almost a full day trying to debug
our algorithm, only to realize that the problem was caused by the unstable
network connection between our controller and the robot. There were times of
panick (or even despair), especially when we messed up the network setting on
the robot on the night before demo, which prevented us from connecting to our
robot for any debugging and testing. This was, fortunately, followed by a time
of relief, when we figured out what went wrong with the help from a TA, and
reconnected to our robot three hours before the demo. There were also, of
course, times of joy and satisfaction when the robot managed to deliver an
apple back to the base in a test run.  Unfortunately, the robot's navigator
somehow malfunctioned during the demo, and we failed the demo horribly.  In
some sense, this was expected, as we never got to test the robot on the demo
scenario because of the networking issue. Our own test scenario might have been
just different enough from the demo scenario for parameters to generalize.
However, I still think this Turtlebot project was the highlight of my academic
effort this quarter. Even though the result was not awesome, I was very proud
of myself and my team, perhaps more so than when I heard that I got into
Stanford or my paper got accepted to AAAI. This time, I actually worked really
hard.

**Progress towards new year's resolution**: As of today, I clocked 3420 minutes
for meditation. It is still a bit slower than the plan, but still within a
perfectly reasonable error margin. Progress on the push-up/squat task is solid.
Although I am still doing knee pushups, I can now do 20 with relative ease.
When I first started, well, let's just say that I was really bad. The progress
on the RL end is disappointing, and I am not satisfied with myself about this.
Although I learned a lot from CS234, I still do not feel I have internalized
the knowledge, and that my understanding of many algorithms is still very
surface-level. Also, I did get some practice implementing DQN and policy
gradient during CS234 as homework problems, but just like any other homework
projects, the infrastructure was already there, and we only needed to implement
a very small portion of it. Going forward, the plan is to start actively
compiling notes and writing summaries. Maybe start a post post series if I can
get enough down.

**Has there been lows?** I am sure that there have been a couple times that I
felt kind of sad, but I actually do not remember a specific incident that
upset me enough to be stuck in my mind till today. I guess a lesson here is
that I tend to forgot the lows rather quickly, at least more so than I do the
highs. However, I felt that in general, I was kind of disappointed in myself in
terms of working ethics. I definitely could have worked harder in general.
Maybe not on the Turtlebot project, but I could have wasted a lot less time and
used them on other meaningful things. Oh, and I got rejected today for a
research opportunity inquiry. I guess today still counts, right?

**Misc**:
- I played a lot more tennis than I used to, but I am still progressing
    at an insanely slow speed.
- I downloaded Starcraft II during spring break, and
    plan to start playing versus regularly, and hopefully get good at it.
- I did try to write some posts during the past three months. In fact, I have a
    decent number of unfinished scripts lying in my drafts folder. The plan is to
    finish three or four of them and post in April.

In general, life is not bad. Cheers!
