---
layout: post
title: "[Life] Reflection 2019.04"
tags: [life]
author: FJ
category: life
excerpt: "It's been a good month"
---

April marked the end of the spring break and the beginning of my third quarter
at Stanford. To my own surprise, it went really well. Finally, I started to
enjoy my life as a graduate student. I also felt, for the first time, that I am
slowly adapting to the Stanford life, both academically and socially. It has
been a great month.

**Two weeks of French**: I attended first-year French for two weeks at the
beginning of the quarter. I was immediately hooked When I walked into the
classroom on the first day. I believe part of it was that the small size of the
class reminded me of Swarthmore. Compared to the auditorium-sized engineering
classes where knowledge is projected in a single direction, the interactions in
these small classes just has a peaceful sense of intimacy and nostalgia about it. (It does
have some drawbacks, tho. For example, it is more awkward when you fart in a
small class than in a big one. However, the perpetual fear of this happening
was not the reason I dropped the class after two weeks.)

In the two weeks, I had a lot of fun, and also learned a lot. (OK, the learned
a lot part is arguable. The most grammatically complex sentence I can produce
now would be "Je ne suis pas un chien", and I don't even know if it is
grammatically correct.) Sadly, I had to drop the class because the pace of my
research and my other "real" classes quickly picked up, and I decided that I
need more time for them. I was not an easy decision. In fact, I had a temper
tantrum when I was calling my parents and asking for their advice on whether to
drop the class or not. I got very disappointed in myself for not being able to
manage the time well enough, but I also knew that it had to be done. In
hindsight, however, it is clear dropping French the right thing to do, as I was
overloading myself with my coursework already, and dropping French freed up a
lot of time for me to stay on track with everything else. However, I definitely
plan to come back and take (hopefully more than two weeks of) French again next
quarter.

On the note of time management. Taking French gave me an excuse to binge watch
*Dix Pour Cent* in three days.  Was I paying attention to the vocab and grammer
while I was watching, you ask?  Well, you bet.


**Disconnecting from distractions**: After I binged all three seasons of *Dix
Pour Cent*, I started to feel that maybe, just maybe, I was spending too much
time on the Internet. So, I made an attempt of
disconnecting from social media and video sites like Youtube and Netflix for a
week, to free myself from these distractions. In all honesty, it was not easy
at first. I started to feel very antsy during meals without Youtube, but I also
realized that was exactly the problem. I was completely off these sites for a
week, and it has been one of the most fulfilling weeks in a long long time.
Sadly, I started to abuse these technology again two weeks after that, but more
on this in another post. Moral of the story? Internet is evil.


**Research**: I started my AA290 research project this quarter. My first
research project as a graduate student. It felt quite different from
undergraduate research. In undergraduate years, I did research partly for fun, partly for
covering up the fact that I was too lazy to find an internship. However,
graduate research is a bit more cutthroat. Although it is not strictly publish
or perish, there is a considerable amount of pressure from both internal and
external sources for producing good results. However, as stressful as it is,
research is still fun. Even with the time constraints, learning about new
methods and applying them to solve puzzles are still quite enjoyable. I have
been trying to focus on the fun aspect, and for now it seems to be working. I
am quite sure that somewhere down the road, I will suffer from burnout and get
stuck in the valley of shit (It is a widely used term to describe a common
feeling for PhD students. Google it. You'll be surprised), but I am still
enjoying research, at least for now.


**Learning to Drive**: Yes. Me, Fengjun Yang, FJ Yang, Fyang, 22 years old,
master student, still do not have a driver's license. Not a big deal. But, this
embarassing fact will soon become history. I got my driver's permit in late
March, and I have finally started to take driving lessons in April. My road
test is scheduled in late May, and we will see how it goes.

**New Bike**: I went to the bike sale this quarter with my roommate. We went to
line up for the sale at around 6am. Even then, we were only number 33 and 34.
The first guy in the line had a tent in front of the pub safe office. I can
only imagine what happened the night before. A friend
of mine got number 14, and he got there at around 4:15am. So, I guess 34 was
not too bad considering we only got up at 5:45am. I am also beyond satisfied
with my silver commuter lady bike. Just love it.

**Misc**:
- I played a lot more tennis than I used to, and I think I am slowly getting
    better.
- I got really interested in the financial markets after reading the quant
    book. I am again getting hesitant about whether I should stay at Stanford
    for the PhD program in Aero/Astro. I guess it depends on a lot of things.
    For one, whether there will be faculty at Stanford who wants to advise me.
    This thought of leaving Stanford, for now, serves as a good way to
    de-stress: if things do not work out, I will just leave Stanford and do
    something I am more interested in.

In general, April has been a great month. Hope the happiness will continue into
May.

