---
layout: post
title: "Three Examples of the Probabilistic Method"
tags: [probility, notes]
author: Fengjun
category: notes
comments: true
excerpt: ""
---

{% include image.html
align="right"
url="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/2f/Erdos_budapest_fall_1992_%28cropped%29.jpg"
caption="Paul Erdos.<br/>Kmhkmh, CC BY 3.0, Wikimedia Commons"
%}

> What you need is that your brain is open. -- Paul Erdos

## Introduction

Sophomore year in collge, I took my first proof-based math class on *the Probabilistic Method* (PM). Like many first-time proof writers, I
struggled a lot. The funny thing, however, is that this was also the
most rewarding class I had ever taken. In this post, I revisit two
particularly memorable examples from the class, and
also present a third example that I stumbled upon in a different setting. All
three examples are elementary, but example 2 assumes some basic familiarity
with graph theory and example 3 some basic convex analysis. In addition to the
theorems (and the proofs thereof), I also include non-technical digressions.
Even if you did not get the proofs on the first try, feel free to skip past
them and sample some of the stories. :)


## Example 1: Cutting Circles
This first example is more of a brain teaser than serious math. It goes like
this.
> Suppose there is a unit square, and within the square are $$m$$ circles. You
> don't know how many circles there are, how large the circles are, or where
> they are, but you *do* know that their circumferences add up to $$10$$. As it
> turns out, under this configuration, there is always a way to make
> a straight cut through the square that intersects with at least four circles.
> Now, why is that?

{% include image.html
align="left"
url="/assets/PM-post/cut-circles.png"
caption="Four randomly sampled configurations of circles <br/> and their corresponding cuts"
%}

Let's start by unpacking and visualizing the statement. The theorem says that
for any given configuration of circles that satisfy the abovementioned
conditions, we can find a corresponding cut that goes through at least four
circles. In the picture on the right, we plot four randomly generated legal
configurations, and a corresponding cut for each.

Note that the reverse is not true. For any given cut, we can easily find a
configuration where all the circles shun the cut. Just find a space where we
can fit a circle, and draw many many of them until the circumference condition
is satisfied. Now, hopefully this fact makes this statement seem a little bit
less trivial.

So, how can we prove this? In many cases, a good way to prove something exists
is to construct it (unfortunately, this only works very occasionally outside
the realm of math). In this example, it would mean that we need to give a
sequence of steps that we can follow to find the cut (a.k.a. an algorithm) that
works universally for all configurations of circles. In fact, this is doable,
and you only really need one step once you understand how this works. But we
are going to present a different route, one that will lead naturally to the
construction of the cut.



This is where the probabilistic method comes in.
Now, we prove that our statement is true using the PM. OK, now you might be
wondering: this is a deterministic statement, where does probability come in
here? And this is exactly the cool part of the PM. We artificially introduce
probabilistic elements into the solution to simplify the proof. In this case,
we are going to cut the square randomly.




In the preface of *The Probabilistic Method (2008)*, Noga Alon and Joel Spencer gave
the following definition.
> The basic Probabilisitic Method can be described as follows: In order to
> prove the existence of a combinatorial structure with certain properties, we
> construct an appropriate probability space and show that a randomly chosen
> element in this space has the desired properties with positive probability.

## Bounding Ramsey Numbers
Consider a graph $$\mathcal{G}=(V, E)$$ with 3 vertices.

{% include image.html
url="/assets/PM-post/3-graphs.png"
caption="All possible configurations of a graph on three vertices. Plotted using networkx"
%}

We begin with the result that kicked off the field of the probabilistic
methods -- the OG exponential bound on Ramsey numbers.

## An Interesting Result from Number Theory


## Epilogue
I don't know if I am qualified to call this my favorite class in undergrad.  I
took this class my sophomore fall. I struggled really hard in this class, and I
don't remember anything when I started this post.

Joshua encouraged me. I got good score for the last final.

Now, I have come a long way. Had a great class this semester on probability
theory, almost failed it.
