---
layout: post
title: "[Draft]Three Examples of the Probabilistic Method"
tags: [probility, notes]
author: Fengjun
category: notes
comments: true
excerpt: ""
---

**The following is an unfinished draft.**


{% include image.html
align="right"
url="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/2f/Erdos_budapest_fall_1992_%28cropped%29.jpg"
caption="Paul Erdos.<br/>Kmhkmh, CC BY 3.0, Wikimedia Commons"
%}

> What you need is that your brain is open. -- Paul Erdos

## Introduction

Sophomore year in collge, I took my first proof-based math class on *the
Probabilistic Method* (PM). Like many first-time proof writers, I struggled a
lot. Like some first-time proof writers, this class went on to become the most
rewarding class I took.

In the preface of *The Probabilistic Method (2008)*, Noga Alon and Joel Spencer gave
the following definition.
> The basic Probabilisitic Method can be described as follows: In order to
> prove the existence of a combinatorial structure with certain properties, we
> construct an appropriate probability space and show that a randomly chosen
> element in this space has the desired properties with positive probability.

In this post, I revisit two particularly memorable
examples from the class, and also present a third example that I stumbled upon
in a different setting. All three examples are elementary, but example 2
assumes some basic familiarity with graph theory and example 3 some basic
convex analysis. Hopefully these examples can pique your interest in the
probabilistic method.

## Example 1: Cutting Circles
This first example is more of a brain teaser than serious math. It goes like
this.
> Suppose there is a unit square, and within the square are $$m$$ circles. You
> don't know how many circles there are, how large the circles are, or where
> they are, but you *do* know that their circumferences add up to $$10$$.
> Show that you can draw a a straight line across the square that goes through
> at least four circles.

{% include image.html
align="left"
url="/assets/PM-post/cut-circles.png"
caption="Four randomly sampled configurations of circles <br/> and their corresponding cuts"
%}

Let's start by unpacking and visualizing the statement. The theorem says that
for any given configuration of circles that satisfy the abovementioned
conditions, we can find a corresponding cut that goes through at least four
circles. In the picture on the right, we plot four randomly generated legal
configurations, and a corresponding cut for each.

Note that the reverse is not true. For any given cut, we can easily find a
configuration where all the circles shun the cut. Just find a space where we
can fit a circle, and draw many many of them until the circumference condition
is satisfied. Now, hopefully this fact makes this statement seem a little bit
less trivial.

So, how can we prove this? In many cases, a good way to prove something exists
is to construct it (unfortunately, this only works very occasionally outside
the realm of math). In this example, it would mean that we need to give a
sequence of steps that we can follow to find the cut (a.k.a. an algorithm) that
works universally for all configurations of circles. However, we are going to
take a different route, and use the probabilistic method to write a
non-constructive proof.

You might be wondering: where is the probabilistic part in this problem?
Indeed, up to this point, everything is deterministic. We have to artificially
introduce the randomness here to be able to get a probabilistic statement.
Specifically, we now *consider a random horizontal cut of the square* whose
height is sampled uniformly at random in the range $$[0, 1]$$.

Define the random variable $$X_i$$ to be the indicator random variable that
indicates whether the random cut goes through circle $$i$$, i.e. that
\\[ X_i = \begin{cases} 1 & \text{if cut goes through circle }i \cr
0 & \text{otherwise} \end{cases}\\]
Denote the sum of these r.v.'s as
\\[ X = \sum_{i=1}^{m}X_i.\\]
$$X$$ here would then be the total number of circles the cut goes through.

Now comes the crux of the proof. To show that our desired cut exists, it
suffices for us to show that 
\\[\mathbb{E}(X) > 3,\\]
as this is only possible when
\\[\mathrm{Pr}(X\geq 4) > 0.\\]

By linearity of expectation, we easily have that
\\[ \begin{align} \mathbb{E}(X) &= \mathbb{E}(\sum_{i=1}^{m}X_i) \cr &=
\sum_{i=1}^{m}\mathbb{E}(X_i) \cr &= \sum_{i=1}^{m}
\mathrm{Pr}(X_i=1),\end{align} \\]
where the last step comes from the property of indicator variables.

Since the cut is horizontal, the probability of the cut going through circle
$$i$$ is simply $$2r_i / 1 = 2r_i$$. Thus, our expected value
\\[ \begin{align} \mathbb{E}(X) &= \sum_{i=1}^{m}\mathrm{Pr}(X_i=1) \cr
&=\sum_{i=1}^{m}2r_i \cr &=\sum_{i=1}^{m}\frac{C_i}{\pi} \cr
&= \frac{10}{\pi} \cr &= 3.183 > 3.\\end{align}
\\]
We can thus conclude that such a cut exists.

## Example 2: Bounding Ramsey Numbers
Consider a graph $$\mathcal{G}=(V, E)$$ with 3 vertices.

{% include image.html
url="/assets/PM-post/3-graphs.png"
caption="All possible configurations of a graph on three vertices. Plotted using networkx"
%}

We begin with the result that kicked off the field of the probabilistic
methods -- the OG exponential bound on Ramsey numbers.

## Example 3: An Approximate Version of Caratheodory


## Epilogue
I don't know if I am qualified to call this my favorite class in undergrad.  I
took this class my sophomore fall. I struggled really hard in this class, and I
don't remember anything when I started this post.

Joshua encouraged me. I got good score for the last final.

Now, I have come a long way. Had a great class this semester on probability
theory, almost failed it.
