---
layout: post
title: Why am I starting this blog
tags: [life, workflow]
author: FJ
category: life
comments: true
excerpt: "A reminder to myself about why I am starting this blog"
---

In hindsight, my decision to apply to the aero/astro program at Stanford elludes even myself. As a computer science
major who did not take a single physics class during undergrad, I was probably not the usual kind of applicant for aero programs
anywhere, not to say Stanford, whose program attacts many outstanding aerospace engineers from all over the world. I
guess I convinced myself that there are interesting research going on in the department 
driven partly by a sense of 

Back in the still snowy Swarthmore spring in 2018, I was in the happy situation to decide where I want to go for
graduate school. The decision was a bit atypical, in that I was not only deciding which school I want to go to, but also
more importantly, what area do I want to study. In hindsight, it was really 

to my very first blog post! Since this is the first post, I thought it might be worth the time to inform you and remind myself what
this blog is all about.
There are two types of posts that I plan to write. First, I plan to write some technical blog posts. This is partly
because I want to solidify my understanding and make the fuzzy ideas in my brain concrete. The other part is that I
believe firmly that sharing knowledge to a more general audience is the responsibility for people who work on research
projects.
The second type of posts are more personal, and will be periodical reviews of my progress (for both
academic and non-academic endeavors) and reflections on my life as a student. These posts are more for myself than for other readers. The reason?
I feel writing about my experience forces me to zoom out and look at my life from a different, probably more objective, perspective.
I believe being a funded master's student at Stanford should be, and I quote Professor Alonso for this, being a kid in a
candy store. There are not a whole lot of responsibilities (I am very fortunate to be funded by the department
fellowship, which frees me from any RA or TA responsibilities that usually come with funding). There are, however, a
great lot of opportunities to learn about or get involved in research on things that I have been wanting to take but have not gotten that chance yet. 
However, being caught up by the pressure of grades and uncertainty about the future, I was hardly that kid in the candy
store throughout the past quarter, and I feel extremely sad about this. So, in an effort to put things back into
perspective (and to prepare myself for the Valley of Shit), I plan to reflect on my achievements and struggles, and
share them here.
I think the process of writing and maintaining a blog might be of interest to many, and it is worth documenting what I
found to be helpful resources in building up this site. (However, do not let me mislead you into believing that you need
to know a lot of tech details to be able to create a Jekyll blog. In fact, it took me less than 30min to get a prototype
of this site working.) Without further adue, let's get down to business!
